# ISO/IEC 19249

ISO/IEC 19249 lists five architectural principles:

* Domain Separation: Every set of related components is grouped as a single entity; components can be applications, data, or other resources. Each entity will have its own domain and be assigned a common set of security attributes. For example, consider the x86 processor privilege levels: the operating system kernel can run in ring 0 (the most privileged level). In contrast, user-mode applications can run in ring 3 (the least privileged level). Domain separation is included in the Goguen-Meseguer Model.
* Layering: When a system is structured into many abstract levels or layers, it becomes possible to impose security policies at different levels; moreover, it would be feasible to validate the operation. Let’s consider the OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) model with its seven layers in networking. Each layer in the OSI model provides specific services to the layer above it. This layering makes it possible to impose security policies and easily validate that the system is working as intended. Another example from the programming world is disk operations; a programmer usually uses the disk read and write functions provided by the chosen high-level programming language. The programming language hides the low-level system calls and presents them as more user-friendly methods. Layering relates to Defence in Depth.
* Encapsulation: In object-oriented programming (OOP), we hide low-level implementations and prevent direct manipulation of the data in an object by providing specific methods for that purpose. For example, if you have a clock object, you would provide a method increment() instead of giving the user direct access to the seconds variable. The aim is to prevent invalid values for your variables. Similarly, in larger systems, you would use (or even design) a proper Application Programming Interface (API) that your application would use to access the database.
* Redundancy: This principle ensures availability and integrity. There are many examples related to redundancy. Consider the case of a hardware server with two built-in power supplies: if one power supply fails, the system continues to function. Consider a RAID 5 configuration with three drives: if one drive fails, data remains available using the remaining two drives. Moreover, if data is improperly changed on one of the disks, it would be detected via the parity, ensuring the data’s integrity.
* Virtualization: With the advent of cloud services, virtualization has become more common and popular. The concept of virtualization is sharing a single set of hardware among multiple operating systems. Virtualization provides sandboxing capabilities that improve security boundaries, secure detonation, and observance of malicious programs.

ISO/IEC 19249 teaches five design principles:

* Least Privilege: You can also phrase it informally as “need-to basis” or “need-to-know basis” as you answer the question, “who can access what?” The principle of least privilege teaches that you should provide the least amount of permissions for someone to carry out their task and nothing more. For example, if a user needs to be able to view a document, you should give them read rights without write rights.
* Attack Surface Minimisation: Every system has vulnerabilities that an attacker might use to compromise a system. Some vulnerabilities are known, while others are yet to be discovered. These vulnerabilities represent risks that we should aim to minimize. For example, in one of the steps to harden a Linux system, we would disable any service we don’t need.
* Centralized Parameter Validation: Many threats are due to the system receiving input, especially from users. Invalid inputs can be used to exploit vulnerabilities in the system, such as denial of service and remote code execution. Therefore, parameter validation is a necessary step to ensure the correct system state. Considering the number of parameters a system handles, the validation of the parameters should be centralized within one library or system.
* Centralized General Security Services: As a security principle, we should aim to centralize all security services. For example, we would create a centralized server for authentication. Of course, you might take proper measures to ensure availability and prevent creating a single point of failure.
* Preparing for Error and Exception Handling: Whenever we build a system, we should take into account that errors and exceptions do and will occur. For instance, in a shopping application, a customer might try to place an order for an out-of-stock item. A database might get overloaded and stop responding to a web application. This principle teaches that the systems should be designed to fail safe; for example, if a firewall crashes, it should block all traffic instead of allowing all traffic. Moreover, we should be careful that error messages don’t leak information that we consider confidential, such as dumping memory content that contains information related to other customers.
